Add credential dataset version (#472)
openid/OpenID4VCI: 1.1/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_1.md

Reviewer: According to the text above the example, this should include the `credential_dataset_id`.

```suggestion
  "notification_id": "3fwe98js",
  "credential_dataset_id": "Jk0eOt4CXQe1NXK"
```

Credential Dataset:

> :  A set of one or more claims about a subject, provided by a Credential Issuer.

Reviewer 2: We could consider adding text that the credential_instance maps to the credential dataset, which is unfortunately not too obvious from the naming

Author: You mean `credential_identifier` from the token response (aka credential instance). This makes sense.

Reviewer 2: let's not reference in the terminology, as we don't do that for other terms

> Credential Dataset Version

Reviewer 3: For consistency:

```suggestion
Credential Dataset Version:
```

> Credential Dataset Identifier

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Credential Dataset Version
```

> :  A String that refers to a specific version of a Credential Dataset. This version is identical for multiple instances of a Credential that share the same Credential Dataset, even when the Credential instances differ in cryptographic data, e.g., an Issuer signature. When any of the claim values in the Credential Dataset change, a new Credential Dataset Version is assigned. Note that a Credential Dataset Version is bound to a specific Credential Format.

Reviewer 4: It's not just cryptographic data, also other security claims. e.g. exp, iat, cnf etc.

Author: yep, i thought about this as well but we are using cryptographic data for these things. imo, we should have a term definition of cryptographic data, or credential metadata that includes these things. would it be ok to have a separate PR for this? we use the term cryptographic data in the batch issuance endpoint already. and there we define only three categories: format, dataset and cryptographic data which should be reworked a bit for clarity. i suggest to do that in the same PR.

Reviewer 5: I'm pretty sure I've seen some language similar to "security-related claims" in other specs, but I can't seem to find it right now. Would be nice to have a standard term.

Author: Here it gets tricky, because for ISO mdocs this would essentially be all data contained in the MSO, right? We should think about the right term definitions and keep it very broad in this PR.

Author: I updated this PR to mention timestamps but created this issue to discuss term definitions: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/issues/752

> :  A String that refers to a specific version of a Credential Dataset. This version is identical for multiple instances of a Credential that share the same Credential Dataset, even when the Credential instances differ in data that is not part of the Credential Dataset, such as cryptographic data (e.g., an Issuer signature) or timestamps. When any of the claim values in the Credential Dataset change, a new Credential Dataset Version is assigned. Note that a Credential Dataset Version is bound to a specific Credential Format.

Reviewer 3: I think adding/removed claims is in scope too?

```suggestion
:  A String that refers to a specific version of a Credential Dataset. This version is identical for multiple instances of a Credential that share the same Credential Dataset, even when the Credential instances differ in data that is not part of the Credential Dataset, such as cryptographic data (e.g., an Issuer signature) or timestamps. When any of the claim values in the Credential Dataset change or claims are added or removed, a new Credential Dataset Version is assigned. Note that a Credential Dataset Version is bound to a specific Credential Format.
```

> 

Reviewer 6: Not fully in scope of this PR I guess, but I think we should clarify this: Is a Credential Dataset format-specific? If a credential is offered in different formats (but containing the same information), would they share the same Credential Dataset Identifier or have different ones ?

Author: For simplicity reasons (spec and implementations), I would be in favor to keep it format-specific unless there are good reasons no to.

Reviewer 6: Then let's make that clear in the text imho. Something like this?
```suggestion
Credential Dataset:
:  A set of one or more claims about a subject, provided by a Credential Issuer.

Credential Dataset Identifier
:  A unique identifier that refers to a specific version of a Credential Dataset. This identifier remains stable across multiple instances of a Credential that share the same set of claim values, even if they differ in cryptographic proofs. When the claim values in the dataset change, a new Credential Dataset Identifier is assigned. This identifier enables Wallets to detect changes to the underlying data and to distinguish between Credentials issued with different versions of a Credential Dataset under the same Credential Configuration. Note that A Credential Dataset Identifier is bound to a specific Credential Format.

```

> :  A unique identifier that refers to a specific version of a Credential Dataset. This identifier remains stable across multiple instances of a Credential that share the same set of claim values, even if they differ in cryptographic proofs. When the claim values in the dataset change, a new Credential Dataset Identifier is assigned. This identifier enables Wallets to detect changes to the underlying data and to distinguish between Credentials issued with different versions of a Credential Dataset under the same Credential Configuration. Note that A Credential Dataset Identifier is bound to a specific Credential Format.

Reviewer 5: Editorial:
```suggestion
:  A unique identifier that refers to a specific version of a Credential Dataset. This identifier remains stable across multiple instances of a Credential that share the same set of claim values, even if they differ in cryptographic proofs. When the claim values in the dataset change, a new Credential Dataset Identifier is assigned. This identifier enables Wallets to detect changes to the underlying data and to distinguish between Credentials issued with different versions of a Credential Dataset under the same Credential Configuration. Note that a Credential Dataset Identifier is bound to a specific Credential Format.
```

> :  A unique identifier that refers to a specific version of a Credential Dataset. This identifier remains stable across multiple instances of a Credential that share the same set of claim values, even if they differ in cryptographic proofs. When the claim values in the dataset change, a new Credential Dataset Identifier is assigned. This identifier enables Wallets to detect changes to the underlying data and to distinguish between Credentials issued with different versions of a Credential Dataset under the same Credential Configuration. Note that a Credential Dataset Identifier is bound to a specific Credential Format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:  A String that refers to a specific version of a Credential Dataset. This version is identical for multiple instances of a Credential that share the same Credential Dataset, even if they differ in cryptographic proofs. When any of the claim values in the Credential Dataset change, a new Credential Dataset Version is assigned. This version enables Wallets to detect changes to the underlying data and to distinguish between Credentials of the same Credential Configuration are issued with different Credential Datasets. Note that a Credential Dataset Version is bound to a specific Credential Format.
```

Reviewer 2: Is it okay to have the version as a number or rather a string?

  in the Credential Request. If the Authorization Server does not support returning an `authorization_details` parameter containing the
  `credential_identifiers` parameter in the Token Response, the Wallet uses `credential_configuration_id` parameter
  in the Credential Request.
- the Credential Issuer identifies the Credential Dataset for the issued Credential(s) using the `credential_dataset_id` and `credential_dataset_version` parameter

> in the Credential Response, enabling the Wallet to relate them to previously received Credentials

Reviewer 3: Add full stop at end for consistency with other bullets in this list:

```suggestion
in the Credential Response, enabling the Wallet to relate them to previously received Credentials.
```

* `notification_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying one or more Credentials issued in one Credential Response. It MUST be included in the Notification Request as defined in (#notification). It MUST not be used if the `credentials` parameter is not present.
* `credential_metadata`: OPTIONAL. Object that contains additional metadata specific to the issued Credential(s). The definitions and contained parameters for this Object are identical to the `credential_metadata` parameter as defined in Credential Issuer Metadata (see (#credential-issuer-metadata)) See (#display-metadata-considerations) for implementation considerations on credential metadata.
* `credential_dataset_id`: RECOMMENDED. A string containing the Credential Dataset Identifier of the Credential Dataset from which the returned Credential(s) were issued. Together with the `credential_dataset_version` parameter, it allows Wallets to determine if previously received Credentials may be superseded. See (#credential-dataset-identifier-implementation) for implementation considerations.

> * `credential_dataset_version`: RECOMMENDED. A string containing the Credential Dataset Version associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. It MUST NOT be used unless the `credential_dataset_id` parameter is also present, since a Credential Dataset Version cannot be interpreted without the Credential Dataset Identifier it belongs to. See (#credential-dataset-identifier-implementation) for implementation considerations.

Reviewer 3: As I think I mentioned earlier, I think we should strongly consider use of a term other than 'version', as 'version' hints at semantics this field just doesn't have.

perhaps `credential_dataset_tag`?

As I mentioned earlier, I think we should probably be clearer that this isn't intended to be a user visible field (with the possible exception of diagnostic display).

Reviewer 2: Good observation, I would be fine with "tag"

* `transaction_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying a Deferred Issuance transaction. This parameter is contained in the response if the Credential Issuer cannot immediately issue the Credential. The value is subsequently used to obtain the respective Credential with the Deferred Credential Endpoint (see (#deferred-credential-issuance)). It MUST not be used if the `credentials` parameter is present. It MUST be invalidated after the Credential for which it was meant has been obtained by the Wallet.
* `interval`: REQUIRED if `transaction_id` is present. Contains a positive number that represents the minimum amount of time in seconds that the Wallet SHOULD wait after receiving the response before sending a new request to the Deferred Credential Endpoint. It MUST NOT be used if the `credentials` parameter is present.
* `notification_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying one or more Credentials issued in one Credential Response. It MUST be included in the Notification Request as defined in (#notification). It MUST not be used if the `credentials` parameter is not present.

> * `credential_dataset_id`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. An opaque string containing the Credential Dataset Identifier associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority), enabling the Wallet to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and the issuance of a credential containing modified claim values. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_id` to be always present in the Credential Response.

Reviewer 6: Same as above.
```suggestion
* `credential_dataset_id`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. An opaque string containing the Credential Dataset Identifier associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority), enabling the Wallet to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and the issuance of a credential containing modified claim values. Note that this information is only valid for the scope of a concrete credential format - if a Credential is offered in different formats, they would have different values for  `credential_dataset_id`. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_id` to be always present in the Credential Response. 
```

> * `credential_dataset_id`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. An opaque string containing the Credential Dataset Identifier associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority), enabling the Wallet to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and the issuance of a credential containing modified claim values. Note that this information is only valid for the scope of a concrete credential format: if a Credential is offered in different formats, they would have different values for `credential_dataset_id`. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_id` to be always present in the Credential Response. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `credential_dataset_ver`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. An opaque string containing the Credential Dataset Version associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority), enabling the Wallet to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and the issuance of a credential containing modified claim values. Note that this information is only valid for the scope of a concrete credential format: if a Credential is offered in different formats, they would have different values for `credential_dataset_ver`. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_ver` to be always present in the Credential Response. 
```

Reviewer 2: The last and first sentence are contradicting, feels like you didn't finish the first sentence and there is a condition missing. I would not make this feature mandatory.

Author: No, it is not contradicting. For 1.1 issuers, the feature is mandatory. Because a 1.1 wallet may talk to a 1.0 issuer, wallets cannot expect this to be present in all cases.

> * `credential_dataset_id`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. An opaque string containing the Credential Dataset Identifier associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority), enabling the Wallet to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and the issuance of a credential containing modified claim values. Note that this information is only valid for the scope of a concrete credential format - if a Credential is offered in different formats, they would have different values for  `credential_dataset_id`. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_id` to be always present in the Credential Response. 

Reviewer 5: Not sure about the term "opaque" here. Not really used in the other parameters, and I don't think anyone would parse this anyway.

Author: @fkj agreed. Does this read better?

```suggestion
* `credential_dataset_id`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. Any string containing the Credential Dataset Identifier associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority), enabling the Wallet to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and the issuance of a credential containing modified claim values. Note that this information is only valid for the scope of a concrete credential format - if a Credential is offered in different formats, they would have different values for  `credential_dataset_id`. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_id` to be always present in the Credential Response. 
```

Reviewer 5: I think you can even just say "A string". I don't think anyone would have any reason to try to parse this.

> * `credential_dataset_id`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. An opaque string containing the Credential Dataset Identifier associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority), enabling the Wallet to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and the issuance of a credential containing modified claim values. Note that this information is only valid for the scope of a concrete credential format - if a Credential is offered in different formats, they would have different values for  `credential_dataset_id`. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_id` to be always present in the Credential Response. 

Reviewer 4: credential_dataset_version rather than id?

> * `credential_dataset_id`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. An opaque string containing the Credential Dataset Identifier associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority), enabling the Wallet to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and the issuance of a credential containing modified claim values. Note that this information is only valid for the scope of a concrete credential format - if a Credential is offered in different formats, they would have different values for  `credential_dataset_id`. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_id` to be always present in the Credential Response. 

Reviewer 5: Editorial:
```suggestion
* `credential_dataset_id`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. An opaque string containing the Credential Dataset Identifier associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority), enabling the Wallet to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and the issuance of a credential containing modified claim values. Note that this information is only valid for the scope of a concrete credential format: if a Credential is offered in different formats, they would have different values for `credential_dataset_id`. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_id` to be always present in the Credential Response. 
```

> * `credential_dataset_id`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. An opaque string containing the Credential Dataset Identifier associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority), enabling the Wallet to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and the issuance of a credential containing modified claim values. Note that this information is only valid for the scope of a concrete credential format - if a Credential is offered in different formats, they would have different values for  `credential_dataset_id`. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_id` to be always present in the Credential Response. 

Reviewer 5: Might make sense to say why the wallet MUST NOT expect this to be here. Presumably for backwards compatibility?

Author: Exactly, and makes sense. We should add this.

* `interval`: REQUIRED if `transaction_id` is present. Contains a positive number that represents the minimum amount of time in seconds that the Wallet SHOULD wait after receiving the response before sending a new request to the Deferred Credential Endpoint. It MUST NOT be used if the `credentials` parameter is present.
* `notification_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying one or more Credentials issued in one Credential Response. It MUST be included in the Notification Request as defined in (#notification). It MUST not be used if the `credentials` parameter is not present.
* `credential_metadata`: OPTIONAL. Object that contains additional metadata specific to the issued Credential(s). The definitions and contained parameters for this Object are identical to the `credential_metadata` parameter as defined in Credential Issuer Metadata (see (#credential-issuer-metadata)) See (#display-metadata-considerations) for implementation considerations on credential metadata.

> * `credential_dataset_version`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. A string containing the Credential Dataset Version associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. The Wallet MUST NOT expect the `credential_dataset_version` parameter to always be present in the Credential Response for backward compatibility with Issuers conforming to earlier versions of this specification. See (#credential-dataset-version-implementation) for implementation considerations.

Reviewer 4: IMO we shouldn't say 'REQUIRED' if wallets can't expect it. 

Say it's OPTIONAL but RECOMMENDED, with an intent to make it REQUIRED when we go to a 2.0.

Author: wallets cannot expect it if they are talking to an issuer conforming to a previous version of this specification. however, for 1.1 issuers we can require it with the language that is in this pr. does this make sense? otherwise, we might need to discuss.

Reviewer 5: I agree that the spec is technically correct, but I also agree that this will confuse people. In principle I'm OK with making it REQUIRED for the issuer to return, but we should try to write the compatibility purpose in a clearer way.

Reviewer 2: I agree with Oliver here: 
- 1.1 issuer can interact with 1.0 wallet, because the wallet is supposed to ignore unknown fields.
- 1.1 wallet can interact with 1.0 issuer if they have a reasonable default behavior. 
Imo, this default behavior could be to always assume a different credential dataset version, hence throw away all previous credentials

Reviewer 4: Yes this technically works, but in practice consider that 1.1 is meant to be a minor version bump, so if I'm an issuer adopting a new feature of 1.1 (e.g. IAE, redirect_uri, credman create) I'd expect to only need to implement support for that new feature. But, I'll actually have to start supplying a completely unrelated field from a completely unrelated endpoint. This makes it 'feel' like a breaking change, and I don't think the benefits (where this is basically a quality-of-life feature) warrant that. 

I also don't like that if I was to write a JSON Schema for this, I'd need different ones for the Issuer and the Wallet, which just seems like it'll lead to problems in the real world. 

(unrelated, we should start adding schema versions and negotiation to our API, and maybe consider feature/extension support declaration, so these sorts of transitions become easier in the future).

Reviewer 2: I would also be fine to make this a RECOMMENDED

Reviewer 2: I changed it to RECOMMENDED as per WG consensus

>     If the Credential Issuer includes the `credential_dataset_version` parameter, the following requirements apply:

Reviewer 2: This sentence contradicts the REQUIRED from above?

Author: Can you clarify? Is this the same comment as here https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/472/#discussion_r3193855109, or is this a new point?

Reviewer 5: I think Paul means that line 1396 says "*If* the Credential Issuer ..." but now it is REQUIRED for the Issuer to do so. So the sentence should be rewritten to something like:
```suggestion
The following requirements apply to the Credential Dataset Version:
```

Author: I think the current text is still correct because the requirements only apply if the version was provided. The larger question is whether it is optional or required for 1.1 issuers. Perhaps we can discuss in the DCP call.

Reviewer 5: WG discussion: If we do the thing above, it's no longer required, so this is fine.

>     * For a given Credential Dataset within the scope of a concrete Credential Format, if the Credential Dataset has not changed, the Credential Issuer MUST return the same Credential Dataset Version, even when issuing a new Credential instance with different cryptographic data, e.g., an Issuer signature.

Reviewer 2: This text is missing the connection to credential_instance returned from Token Response.

Author: You mean credential_identifier from the token response (aka credential instance). This makes sense.

Author: I think "credential instance" may not be the best term, as multiple credential instances can correspond to the same credential identifier, credential configuration, and credential dataset, differing only in their cryptographic proof. Btw, we need a term definition for credential instance as well.
```suggestion
    * For a given Credential Dataset as identified by the `credential_identifier`, if provided in the Token Response, within the scope of a concrete Credential Format, if the Credential Dataset has not changed, the Credential Issuer MUST return the same Credential Dataset Version, even when issuing a new Credential instance with different cryptographic data, e.g., an Issuer signature.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * If a Credential Dataset (identified by `credential_identifier` or `scope` for a particular Credential Configuration of a particular Credential Issuer) has not changed, the Credential Issuer MUST return the same Credential Dataset Version, even when issuing a new Credential instance with different cryptographic data, e.g., an Issuer signature.
```

Reviewer 5: WG discussion: maybe we need a new identifier for this that works even without `credential_identifier` (to support `scope`) and also to impose requirements without breaking changes.

    * If any claim value in the Credential Dataset changes, the Credential Issuer MUST assign a new Credential Dataset Version.
    * Wallets MUST compare Credential Dataset Version values for equality using simple string comparison with no normalization.

>     * Wallets MUST NOT infer ordering from Credential Dataset Version values.

Reviewer 5: Ordering of what? I think this one could be confusing for people, so a bit more explanation would be good.

Author: Added clarification.

> 

Reviewer 4: Should we say something about invalidating old dataset credentials (maybe in implementation considerations if we don't want to make it normative for some reason). Something like: 

For consistency, A Wallet SHOULD/MUST only maintain active Credentials from one version of a Credential Dataset. When a Wallet receives active Credentials with a different credential_dataset_version they SHOULD/MUST keep only the latest version. If a Wallet is unable to determine which is the newest it is RECOMMENDED they make a new Credential Request.

Reviewer 5: I think this is a good idea, but probably should be a SHOULD and not a MUST.

Author: Unsure if there are edge cases where it can make sense to use the previous version but I cannot think of ones that are not flawed by design. Happy to make it a MUST.

Reviewer 4: The only use case I'm aware of for keeping multiple datasets is for age_over attributes: I may want to pre-issue on both sides of your birthday, so I can be offline and still have new credentials available (using nbf or equivalent). That'd all have to be done with custom extensions anyways today, 

I think SHOULD is fine, the whole process is asynchronous anyways, so if an Issuer wants certainty that an old DataSet is no longer presentable then it has to use status lists or the like to make it happen.

Reviewer 5: Yeah I'm also mostly worried that adhering very strictly to a MUST here would bring some operational issues due to the asynchronicity.

Author: Updated the PR to use this:
```
    * Wallets SHOULD maintain active Credentials only from the latest received version of a Credential Dataset. If the Wallet is unable to determine the latest received version, it is RECOMMENDED that it make a new Credential Request.
```

Reviewer 2: I think we should make the parameter RECOMMENDED instead of REQUIRED and change the second part of the sentence to:

If the Wallet is did not receive a Credential Dataset version from the Issuer, it SHOULD discard previously issued Credentials and only maintain Credentials from the last Credential Response.

* `interval`: REQUIRED if `transaction_id` is present. Contains a positive number that represents the minimum amount of time in seconds that the Wallet SHOULD wait after receiving the response before sending a new request to the Deferred Credential Endpoint. It MUST NOT be used if the `credentials` parameter is present.
* `notification_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying one or more Credentials issued in one Credential Response. It MUST be included in the Notification Request as defined in (#notification). It MUST not be used if the `credentials` parameter is not present.
* `credential_metadata`: OPTIONAL. Object that contains additional metadata specific to the issued Credential(s). The definitions and contained parameters for this Object are identical to the `credential_metadata` parameter as defined in Credential Issuer Metadata (see (#credential-issuer-metadata)) See (#display-metadata-considerations) for implementation considerations on credential metadata.

> * `credential_dataset_version`: REQUIRED for the Issuer to return. A string containing the Credential Dataset Version associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. Since Wallets might interact with Credential Issuers conforming to earlier versions of this specification that omit the `credential_dataset_version` parameter, Wallets MUST NOT rely on the parameter being present in every Credential Response. See (#credential-dataset-version-implementation) for implementation considerations.

Reviewer 2: Rethinking this, I would favor this to be RECOMMENDED. If the Issuer does not have a good way to determine this, he would omit the parameter and the Wallet should throw away old batches. This makes it more backwards compatible imo.

Reviewer 5: WG discussion: we agree with this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `credential_dataset_version`: RECOMMENDED. A string containing the Credential Dataset Version associated with the returned Credential(s). This allows Wallets to detect changes to the underlying Credential Dataset across different Credential Responses. See (#credential-dataset-version-implementation) for implementation considerations.
```

    If the Credential Issuer includes the `credential_dataset_version` parameter, the following requirements apply:

    * For a given Credential Dataset within the scope of a concrete Credential Format, if the Credential Dataset has not changed, the Credential Issuer MUST return the same Credential Dataset Version, even when issuing a new Credential instance with different cryptographic data, e.g., an Issuer signature.

>     * If any claim value in the Credential Dataset changes, the Credential Issuer MUST assign a new Credential Dataset Version.

Reviewer 5: This should really only be about non-cryptographic data, i.e. the actual data in the credential.

Reviewer 5: See #752.

>     * If any claim value in the Credential Dataset changes, the Credential Issuer MUST assign a new Credential Dataset Version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * If any claim value in the Credential Dataset changes, or a claim is added or removed, the Credential Issuer MUST assign a new Credential Dataset Version.
```

    * Wallets MUST compare Credential Dataset Version values for equality using simple string comparison with no normalization.
    * Wallets MUST NOT infer ordering, such as whether one value is newer or older than another, from Credential Dataset Version values.

>     * Wallets SHOULD maintain active Credentials only from the latest received version of a Credential Dataset. If the Wallet is unable to determine the latest received version, it is RECOMMENDED that it make a new Credential Request.

Reviewer 3: These 3 clauses make me feel that what we're returning isn't actually a version, and hence that `credential_dataset_version` is misnamed.

It's an opaque thing, and its only property is that if it changes the wallet must throw everything away. It could (kind of) just oscillate between 'a' and 'b' whenever anything changes. Not sure what the right word/phrase is - 'tag' maybe?

I think it would probably also be sensible to be clear about whether the field is intended to be displayed to the user or not. (I presume not.)

>     * Wallets SHOULD maintain active Credentials only from the latest received version of a Credential Dataset. If the Wallet is unable to determine the latest received version, it is RECOMMENDED that it make a new Credential Request.

Reviewer 3: I think 'most recently received' is probably a clearer intent than 'latest received':

```suggestion
    * Wallets SHOULD maintain active Credentials only from the most recently received version of a Credential Dataset. If the Wallet is unable to determine the most recently received version, it is RECOMMENDED that it make a new Credential Request.
```

Reviewer 3: I'm pretty unclear about 'If the Wallet is unable to determine the latest received version, it is RECOMMENDED that it make a new Credential Request.' - when would this be the care?

>     * Wallets SHOULD maintain active Credentials only from the latest received version of a Credential Dataset. If the Wallet is unable to determine the latest received version, it is RECOMMENDED that it make a new Credential Request.

Reviewer 3: I've unsure about the 'active Credentials' part. We've not used 'active' anywhere else in the specification and I'm not sure it has a clear meaning? Maybe something like 'should delete Credentials that do not match the more recently received version of a Credential Dataset / Identifier combo'?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Wallets SHOULD delete Credentials that do not match the most recently received Credential Dataset Version of a specific credential_identifier.
```

}
```

> Below is a non-normative example of a Credential Response in an immediate issuance flow for multiple Credential instances in JWT VC format (JSON encoded) with additional `notification_id` and `credential_dataset_id` parameters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is a non-normative example of a Credential Response in an immediate issuance flow for multiple Credential instances in JWT VC format (JSON encoded) with additional `notification_id` and `credential_dataset_ver` parameters:
```

      "credential": "YXNkZnNhZGZkamZqZGFza23....29tZTIzMjMyMzIzMjMy"
    }
  ],
  "notification_id": "3fwe98js",

>   "credential_dataset_id": "Jk0eOt4CXQe1NXK"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "credential_dataset_ver": "Jk0eOt4CXQe1NXK"
```

* If the Credential Issuer is able to issue the requested Credentials, the Deferred Credential Response MUST use the `credentials` parameter as defined in (#credential-response) and MUST respond with the HTTP status code 200 (see Section 15.3.3 of [@!RFC9110]).
* If the Credential Issuer still requires more time, the Deferred Credential Response MUST use the `interval` and `transaction_id` parameters as defined in (#credential-response) and it MUST respond with the HTTP status code 202 (see Section 15.3.3 of [@!RFC9110]). The value of `transaction_id` MUST be same as the value of `transaction_id` in the Deferred Credential Request.

> The Deferred Credential Response MAY use the `notification_id` and the `credential_dataset_id` parameter as defined in (#credential-response).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Deferred Credential Response MAY use the `notification_id` and the `credential_dataset_ver` parameter as defined in (#credential-response).
```

* If the Credential Issuer is able to issue the requested Credentials, the Deferred Credential Response MUST use the `credentials` parameter as defined in (#credential-response) and MUST respond with the HTTP status code 200 (see Section 15.3.3 of [@!RFC9110]).
* If the Credential Issuer still requires more time, the Deferred Credential Response MUST use the `interval` and `transaction_id` parameters as defined in (#credential-response) and it MUST respond with the HTTP status code 202 (see Section 15.3.3 of [@!RFC9110]). The value of `transaction_id` MUST be same as the value of `transaction_id` in the Deferred Credential Request.

> The Deferred Credential Response MAY use the `notification_id`, the `credential_metadata` and the `credential_dataset_version` parameters as defined in (#credential-response).

Reviewer 3: I think this is ambiguous, I'm unclear if `credential_dataset_version` is a MAY or a MUST/RECOMMENDED here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Deferred Credential Response MAY use the `notification_id` and the `credential_metadata` parameters and SHOULD use the `credential_dataset_version` parameter as defined in (#credential-response).
```

      "credential": "YXNkZnNhZGZkamZqZGFza23....29tZTIzMjMyMzIzMjMy"
    }
  ],
  "notification_id": "3fwe98js",

>   "credential_dataset_id": "Jk0eOt4CXQe1NXK"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "credential_dataset_ver": "Jk0eOt4CXQe1NXK"
```

The action leading to the Wallet performing another Credential Request can also be triggered by a background process, or by the Credential Issuer using an out-of-band mechanism (SMS, email, etc.) to inform the End-User.

## Credential Dataset Identifier and Credential Dataset Version {#credential-dataset-identifier-implementation}

The Credential Dataset Identifier (`credential_dataset_id`) allows Credential Issuers to communicate whether a newly issued Credential has the same Credential Dataset of a previously issued Credential.

> This allows Wallets to differentiate scenarios whether a Credential is an update or replacement of an existing Credential, e.g. a mobile driving license with updated priveleges, or a new Credential that is supposed to exist parallel to existing credentials, e.g. vehicle registration card for multiple cars.

Reviewer 3: typo:
```suggestion
This allows Wallets to differentiate scenarios whether a Credential is an update or replacement of an existing Credential, e.g. a mobile driving license with updated privileges, or a new Credential that is supposed to exist parallel to existing credentials, e.g. vehicle registration card for multiple cars.
```

The Credential Dataset Version (`credential_dataset_version`) allows Credential Issuers to communicate whether a newly issued Credential for a particular Credential Dataset Identifier differs from previously issued Credentials for this Credential Dataset Identifier.
This allows Wallets to distinguish between a re-issuance of unchanged data with different cryptographic key material and issuance of a Credential containing updated or modified claim values.
This is useful in batch issuance scenarios where claim values may change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority) and allows Wallets to decide whether to drop previously issued Credentials to maintain a uniform Credential Dataset:

> * Credentials received with the same Credential Dataset Identifier and the same Credential Dataset Version are additional instances of Credentials the Wallet already holds, usually for batch-issued Credentials. The Wallet can retain them alongside the Credentials it already has.

Reviewer 3: Think Credential Configuration is relevant here too:

```suggestion
* Credentials received with the same Credential Configuration, same Credential Dataset Identifier and the same Credential Dataset Version are additional instances of Credentials the Wallet already holds, usually for batch-issued Credentials. The Wallet can retain them alongside the Credentials it already has.
```

* Credentials received with the same Credential Dataset Identifier but a different Credential Dataset Version supersede the previously issued Credentials the Wallet already holds for that Credential Dataset.

The following requirements apply to a Credential Issuer that includes these parameters:

* Credential Issuers SHOULD NOT disclose the Credential Dataset Identifier or the Credential Dataset Version to any other parties than the particular Wallet, they are issued to.

> * Credential Issuers SHOULD return the same Credential Dataset Identifier for every issuance from the same Credential Dataset, including issuances authorized by a different Access Token and issuances obtained through a different authorization flow.

Reviewer 3: I think we should be clearer here about whether this includes issuances to a different wallet or not.

If it does I think that needs a line in privacy concerns as it's introducing a new potential wallet<>wallet correlation factor that might be surprising in some use cases (e.g. pure age assurance credentials).

* Credential Issuers SHOULD NOT use the same Credential Dataset Identifier for a different Credential Dataset of the same Credential Configuration.
* If the Credential Dataset has not changed, Credential Issuers SHOULD return the same Credential Dataset Version, even when issuing a new Credential instance that differs in data that is not part of the Credential Dataset, such as cryptographic data (e.g., an Issuer signature) or timestamps.
* If any claim value in the Credential Dataset changes, or a claim is added or removed, Credential Issuers SHOULD assign a new Credential Dataset Version.

> 

Reviewer 3: I think we need to be clear that (given these things are not comparable and ordering comes entirely from 'which was most recently received' the Issuer has to be careful not to allow old versions to get to the wallet after a newer version has come into existence:

```suggestion
* Credential Issuers MUST NOT return a response with an old Credential Dataset Version after it has started returning a newer Credential Dataset Version, unless the Credential has been reverted to an old version.

```

The following requirements apply to Wallets:

> * Wallets SHOULD treat both `credential_dataset_identifier` and `credential_dataset_version` as opaque strings and compare them using simple string comparison.

Reviewer 2: MUST or SHOULD?

> * Wallets SHOULD treat both `credential_dataset_identifier` and `credential_dataset_version` as opaque strings and compare them using simple string comparison.

Reviewer 3: This is just 'id' elsewhere:

```suggestion
* Wallets SHOULD treat both `credential_dataset_id` and `credential_dataset_version` as opaque strings and compare them using simple string comparison.
```

* Wallets SHOULD NOT disclose the Credential Dataset Identifier or the Credential Dataset Version to Verifiers or to any other Credential Issuer.
* Wallets SHOULD NOT infer ordering, such as whether one value is newer or older than another, from Credential Dataset Version values.

> * Wallets SHOULD delete previously received Credentials that have the same Credential Dataset Identifier but a different Credential Dataset Version.

Reviewer 3: Technically not accurate I believe, the Dataset Identifier is only scoped to be unique within a particular credential configuration:
```suggestion
* Wallets SHOULD delete previously received Credentials that have the same Credential Configuration and Credential Dataset Identifier but a different Credential Dataset Version.
```

* Wallets MUST NOT use a Credential Dataset Identifier as a `credential_identifier` in a Credential Request. A Credential Issuer MAY use the same value for both, but the two identifiers are distinct and a Wallet MUST NOT assume that they are equal.

> Both parameters are RECOMMENDED rather than REQUIRED, so a Wallet cannot rely on receiving them (especiallyin regard to Credential Issuers implementing OpenID4VCI 1.0). A Wallet that does not receive these parameters cannot distinguish a re-issuance of unchanged data from an issuance of changed data, and applies its own policy for retaining or discarding previously issued Credentials. Similarly, a Credential Issuer that does not return these parameters cannot rely on Wallets either retaining or discarding previously issued Credentials, and, where the Credential Issuer requires that superseded Credentials are no longer accepted, it needs to use a Credential status mechanism instead.

Reviewer 3: Missing space:

```suggestion
Both parameters are RECOMMENDED rather than REQUIRED, so a Wallet cannot rely on receiving them (especially in regard to Credential Issuers implementing OpenID4VCI 1.0). A Wallet that does not receive these parameters cannot distinguish a re-issuance of unchanged data from an issuance of changed data, and applies its own policy for retaining or discarding previously issued Credentials. Similarly, a Credential Issuer that does not return these parameters cannot rely on Wallets either retaining or discarding previously issued Credentials, and, where the Credential Issuer requires that superseded Credentials are no longer accepted, it needs to use a Credential status mechanism instead.
```

The action leading to the Wallet performing another Credential Request can also be triggered by a background process, or by the Credential Issuer using an out-of-band mechanism (SMS, email, etc.) to inform the End-User.

## Credential Dataset Version {#credential-dataset-version-implementation}

The `credential_dataset_version` parameter enables Wallets to distinguish between a cryptographic re-issuance of unchanged data and issuance of a Credential containing modified claim values. This is useful in situations where claim values change over time, such as an updated address, correction of previously issued personal data, or a change in legal or entitlement status (e.g., reaching the age of majority).

Using a stable Credential Dataset Version for unchanged Credential Datasets prevents unnecessary churn for Wallets that use the Credential Dataset Version to replace or discard old Credential Datasets.

> For example, a Credential Issuer can derive the Credential Dataset Version by computing a hash over a stable representation of only the Credential Dataset, rather than over the full Credential payload, so that data outside the Credential Dataset, such as cryptographic data (e.g., an Issuer signature) or timestamps, does not affect the result.

Reviewer 3: It's sort of obvious, but I think we need language to make clear that the version isn't intended to be shared with verifiers, possibly even a 'MUST NOT'.

Especially when the example hashing algorithm is used it would definitely be a linkability risk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, a Credential Issuer can derive the Credential Dataset Version by computing a hash over a stable representation of only the Credential Dataset, rather than over the full Credential payload, so that data outside the Credential Dataset, such as cryptographic data (e.g., an Issuer signature) or timestamps, does not affect the result.

The Wallet MUST NOT share the Credential Dataset Version with Verifiers or any other Issuers.

```

   * use derived origin for `expected_origins` in IAE flow
   * add require_interactive_authorization_request to AS metadata
   * add interactive_authorization_endpoint to AS metadata section

>    * add cerdential dataset identifier

Author: ```suggestion
   * add credential dataset identifier
```

>    * add credential dataset identifier

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * add credential dataset version
```
